https://github.com/dev-arslanahmed/Software-Project-Estimator/blob/master/Screens/1.png

# Software Project Estimator
Pre-planning and estimation are an important part for making things successful literally software industry is no exception to it. The execution of a productive and successful software or project is only possible if proper beforehand estimation is done. The sad part, however, is that the software industry still lacks effective estimation. The methods that are used do not give accurate results or in some other cases, the results are not availed properly. Consequently, the software projects suffer from under estimation and over estimation. Both under estimation and over estimation become the reason of inadequate staff, low quality software products, excessive use of resources, delayed project submissions and as a result project failure occur which caused the client’s trust is lost forever. There are many reasons for such a large number of project failures. The basic reason being that there are no proper courses offered to students that could help them understand the processes of effective software estimation. Although there are a number of estimation tools and websites available over the internet but they are dispersed. Users either don’t find an estimation technique that would support the process model of their software or they just perform the estimation using the wrong technique. To resolve these problems, a tool named ‘Software Project Estimator’ is developed. It would provide effective software estimation using three different estimation tools that accommodate different design process models. Estimator minimizes the chance of project failure by estimating the size, cost, effort and time of a project beforehand using three different techniques i.e. COCOMO I, COCOMO II and SLIM. The estimation is done on different phases of design and implementation. The gained results would be clear and consequently the project submitted will be on time and within budget without compromising on the quality.  
 
